# Personal thoughts about the tools

This section is only about the tools used, and shows a little about my thoughts on it.

Thinking about the tools used, my goal is to explore the Python and JupyterLab (JL) interactive development environment in SDumont, not as a replacement for F90 or C, but as a way of exploring new available resources, discovering new ways to solve problems, trying identify what each feature has the best. The intention is not to make any kind of comparison between languages, each has its application, and together they form a powerful environment. Another point to note is that existing libraries written in F90 or C are usually encapsulated by an API and become Python libraries, while maintaining processing power. In this way, all languages remain important, each with its potentials, used together forming a single JL interactive environment, taking advantage of Python's ease of interface, adding clean syntax, rapid prototyping, modularization, flexibility, and together with JL, facilitating documentation, simulation, data analysis and visualization. Python can also be used in large-scale scientific applications to integrate multiple programs in a single, rapidly developing interactive environment, thereby facilitating scientific computing that is inherently experimental and exploratory. Used in this way, Python can be thought of as a "glue", used to write and manage programs and code, which connects different parts and components. For HPC, we don't write or optimize libraries in pure Python for performance, it's used at a higher level, to put the various pieces together or to experiment. Optimization is done in a second step, after analyzing the profiling to identify the parts that are really worth optimizing. In a second step, these parts can be replaced by existing optimized libraries, or you can take advantage of Python's interfacing capability and use compilers such as F90, C, Cython, Numba, and others.
